Csc207 Phase 0: Scenario WalkThrough

Walkthrough Scenario: A user adds a potato to the inventory. After potato is added, the user requests the program to search for recommended recipes.

When a user first runs the program, CommandInput calls DataParser to read two files, which are CSV files containing string representations of Recipes and Food. DataParser then returns the information to CommandInput, who calls RecipeController with the given Recipe information from DataParser. In RecipeController, RecipeController calls RecipeHandler with an array of the recipe data. Next, RecipeHandler creates a Recipe object for each Recipe in the array, by using constructor Recipe. Once these Recipe objects are constructed, RecipeHandler stores the Recipe Objects in an ArrayList. Meanwhile, CommandInput also calls FoodController with the given Food information. FoodController then sends an array of this information to FoodHandler, who then calls PerishableFood and NonPerishableFood, to create Food objects. FoodController then stores the Food objects in an ArrayList.

The user types a command to add a potato to the inventory, specifying the name, quantity, unit of measurement, and expiration date of the food. In this case,the function “”food add Potato 2 lbs 1 11 2021”  is imputed into the Command GUI. The CommandInput UI then takes the input from the user and calls a helper method, which parses through the commands, then executes the identified command. In this case, CommandInput calls FoodController using a helper method. FoodController then takes the given information from CommandInput and sends an array of information to FoodHandler. CommandInput UI also sends this array to DataParser, who will input this information into a data file. FoodHandler then uses a constructor in Food to create a Food object. Since Potato was inputted to the program with an expiration date, FoodHandler will call PerishableFood and initialize a new PerishableFood object with the given information. Once the new PerishableFood object is returned to FoodHandler, FoodHandler stores the object in an ArrayList.

The user then types a command to recommend 2 recipes from the program in CommandGUI. This sends the command to CommandInput, which then calls RecipeController. RecipeController then calls RecipeHandler, who then calls FoodHandler to retrieve all Foods objects in the inventory. In our scenario, RecipeHandler would look for Recipes using the ingredients we have, and compare these recipes and return a list length 2, of Recipes which most match our current ingredients. RecipeHandler then returns this list to RecipeController, who then formats the Recipe information into a readable manner. This information is then returned to CommandInput, and presented to the user through the CommandGUI.

